Adult

“…Speaking the truth in love, we will grow to become in every respect the mature body of him who is the head, that is, Christ. From him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love, as each part does its work.”

Ephesians 4:15-17 (NIV)

From College and Career to Retirees, FBCM's Adult Ministry aims to engage adults of all ages in intentional discipleship so we may follow Jesus and become more like him - full of grace and truth.

Sunday Morning

Every Sunday morning, there are classes for Adults (in addition for classes for teenagers, children, and nursery) at 9:30 a.m.

Friendship Class taught by Pastor Jonathan. This class alternates between theological topics and biblical studies on the Christian life. This class meets in B-05.

Intergenerational Bible Study class taught by Jim Butler. The class meets in B-04.

Rhythms of Discipleship

We also have various Life groups that meet in set seasons. In between the seasons, we have times of “All Church Discipleship” where all adults gather for Bible study or a teaching series.

Life Group / All-Church Discipleship Seasons

In-between seasons when life groups meet, there are times of "All Church Discipleship" in which the whole congregation gathers for a Bible study or study which help us grow in understanding of the Scriptures and our faith.

Life Groups

We have several life groups which meet at various days & times for discipleship, Bible study, and encouragement.

If you’re interested in joining a small group, or are seeking more information, contact adult[at]fbcmuncie.org

Charis Student Ministry | For college students and those in early career. Led by by Daniel Harris, the director of Charis student ministries. This group explores how faith intersects with everyday moments in life. For meeting times and details, contact daniel@charismuncie.org.

Faithful Fellowship | This life group meets every season on the first and third Sundays at the church. This group enjoys snacks together while exploring theology as it relates to the mission of the church. This group typically meets on Sunday evenings.

Jane Patton Life Group | This life group, convened by Jane Patton, meets at her home. The life group meets at 4 p.m. twice a month on Sundays during the fall and spring seasons.

Snowbirds Life Group | Locations vary for this life group which meets during the summer and fall life groups seasons. The snowbirds group engages in Bible study and snacks are provided. It meets mid-week (typically Thursdays) in room B-05.

Julie Davis Life Group | This life group, taught by Julie Davis, meets at the home of Brian and Deena Green. It involves extended Bible Study, a meal, and even some take-home work. The life group meets twice a month during the fall and spring seasons, starting at 5:30 p.m.

Fellowship And Other Events

Women's Ministry - "Fresh Brewed Life"

Meeting throughout the year, these events include breakfast and hospitality for women of all ages. Come to share life together!

Church Friends Lunch

These post-worship luncheons are opportunities for fun, food, and fellowship multiple times a year. These usually take place at the church fellowship hall.

Service Trips

All church trips for service and worship allow us to serve together as a church family. Whether assisting communities in medium-to-long-term disaster relief or helping partner organizations with projects they need help with, these are great opportunities to draw close to communities in need, one another, and God.

Stay Updated

There are many ways to get the latest information about what is happening in Adult ministry or any of our ministries.

Wednesday Weekly

Our Church App.

The Visitor Quarterly

Get Involved

If you wish to be a part of our adult ministry, contact us!

Cheryl Flaherty

CCT Adult Coordinator

adult[at]fbcmuncie.org