Children

He said to them, “Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these."

Matthew 10:14 (NIV)

Check out our regular online Children’s Newsletter to see the latest updates.

Overview of Children’s Ministry

Holistic and safe. We care for the spiritual, emotional, social, and physical needs of children from infancy through 5th grade. To create a safe environment for our children, FBC Muncie requires that all Children’s Ministry volunteers be background checked and children can only be picked up by a parent/guardian with a matching security tag. For more information on FBC Muncie’s Child Protection Policy or the pick-up/drop-off safety procedures, go to the “Frequently Asked Questions” section below.

Age-appropriate. FBC Muncie has three classroom experiences, each designed with the specific age and developmental stages of children in mind. While in their classrooms, you can expect your children to learn biblical teachings through play areas with age-appropriate toys, group activities, books, and crafts.

Part of the life of the entire congregation. FBC Muncie believes that God created the church to be intergenerational. Children bring new gifts, energy, and perspectives that encourage the adults, while adults model for children what it looks like to worship and live out the Christian faith. For these reasons, FBC Muncie is committed to creating regular opportunities for children to be involved in worship and community service alongside the adult members of the congregation.

Sunday School

Sundays at 9:30 a.m.

“Sunday School” refers to a time of small group Bible study during the hour before our regular worship service. While adults are in their traditional Sunday School classes the following is available:

Nursery (Rm. 105) is available for infants through 3 years old.

Children Pre-K through 5th grade are invited to gather in the Kids Center (Rm. B01) to learn about Christian spiritual habits through creative exercises in art, music, reading.

During this time, we emphasize one of four different spiritual habits: spending time with others, using your gifts, spending time with God, and witnessing to our faith.

FBCM’s children’s ministry volunteers teach these spiritual habits through a variety of worship arts experiences, such as hand bells, choir, and theater.

Nursery

(Rm. 104) is available for infants through 3-year-olds.

FBCM Children's Ministry

We create a safe and nurturing environment for Christian spiritual growth for all ages!

Worship Arts Sunday School

(Rm. B-01) involves our whole children's ministry in music, art, and reading for spiritual formation.

Parents can pick-up their children from the Nursery and Worship Arts Sunday School at 10:15 AM to enjoy breakfast at “Donut Hour” as a family in the Fellowship Hall.

When it’s time for the worship service to begin at 10:45 AM, younger kids may be returned to the Nursery (Rm. 105) while older children Pre-K through 5th grade will join their families in the sanctuary for the first part of worship (~15 minutes) before being dismissed to Children’s Church.

Worship and Children’s Church

Sundays at 10:45 a.m.

FBC Muncie provides childcare throughout all of worship for infants through 3 year olds in the Nursery (Rm. 105).

Families who prefer to keep their young children close during worship are also welcome to use the Family Room (Rm. 104) to nurse, calm crying kids, or take a break while watching the service on a TV.

Because FBC Muncie believes that Children’s Ministry should be part of the life of the entire congregation, we welcome preschool through 5th grade children to participate in the first part of Sunday worship with the adults.

During this time, children will be invited to join their families and the congregation in:

singing, clapping, and dancing to praise songs

reading and listening to holy Scripture

praying

participating in occasional “Children’s Time,” activities and lessons at the front of the sanctuary.

When the first part of worship is over, a member of the FBC Muncie Leadership Team will invite all the children to line up and follow our Children’s Ministry volunteers to Children’s Church. You are also welcome to walk with your child to Children’s Church if that makes you or your child feel more comfortable. Currently, FBCM provides two Children’s Church classes:

Kickstart (Rm. 102) for Preschool through 2nd graders.

The Underground (Rm. B01) for 3rd through 5th graders.

During this second half of worship, adults will have the opportunity to hear the sermon and participate in the rest of worship.

Meanwhile, during Children’s Church, your kids will be engaging with the Bible story through short stories, crafts, games, and other age-appropriate group activities.

When worship is over, parents will take their security tag to pick-up their children from their various classrooms. If you are unsure where a classroom is located, you can stop by the Welcome Center and someone there will be able to guide you.

Special Events

Several children’s events are planned throughout the year. Some are just for fun while others are ways for the children to serve in the church or community. Events are age appropriate and fun for the whole family!

Examples of special events you can expect from our Children’s Ministry include:

Vacation Bible School (VBS)

Parent's Night Out

Family Service opportunities

Trunk or Treat

Operation Christmas Child

Dates and Times Vary

Are you curious about upcoming Children’s Ministry events?

Here’s how you can get connected:

Read our Children's Newsletter

Check out Our Calendar

Check out Our Facebook Page

Follow our Instagram

Download our Church Center App.

Frequently asked questions

What security measures are in place?

What does check-in involve?

Can I volunteer on the Children’s Ministry team or in a classroom?

Can children bring an offering?

Does my child need to bring a Bible?

Get Involved

If you wish to be a part of our children ministry, contact us!

Jennifer Durke

CCT Children Coordinator

children[at]fbcmuncie.org