Get to know the ministers of FBCM

Learn about the staff and volunteers working together in ministry here at
First Baptist Church Muncie, below.

Pastors & Staff

We believe that Christ is the head of the church – our Great Shepherd. Pastors serve as “under-shepherds,” under Christ (1 Peter 5:1-4). Pastors are men and women called by God and the congregation to serve Christ’s church in a variety of ministry areas: from preaching, teaching, visiting the sick, providing spiritual counsel, among many other roles. The pastors serve as a resource for the fulfillment of the Church’s God-given purpose.

We have two Co-Pastors, a married couple, who serve as our Senior Pastors. There is a long history of married couples working together in ministry. In Scripture, married couples hosted churches in their house, taught together, and supported the work of the church as a ministry team (for example, Priscilla and Aquila – see Acts 18:26; 1 Corinthians 16:19; Romans 16:3).

In addition to our Co-Pastors, we also have a Worship Director. who coordinates and supports our worship leaders, planning alongside the Pastors and other ministers in the church, and inviting us into times of intentional worship.

Co-Pastor

Kendall Ellis

Kendall Ellis is one of the Co-Pastors of First Baptist, alongside her husband Jonathan. Her Bachelor of Arts degree in French Language and Literature is from Georgetown College in Kentucky. Kendall received her Master of Divinity and Master of Social Work from Baylor University’s Truett Seminary and Garland School of Social Work in 2022.
Before serving as a Pastor, Kendall served various internships at the intersection of the church and non-profit worlds, served college women as a resident chaplain, taught in a juvenile corrections facility, and served as a youth minister at a church.
In her free time, you can find Kendall hiking, attending to her plants, or baking sweet treats in the kitchen.
Kendall’s favorite verse in Scripture is: Now if we are children, then we are heirs—heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings in order that we may also share in his glory. - Romans 8:17 (NIV)

Jonathan Balmer

Jonathan is one of the Co-Pastors of First Baptist, alongside his wife Kendall Ellis. His Bachelor of Arts degree in English and History is from Georgetown College in Kentucky. Jonathan received his Master of Divinity from Truett Theological Seminary at Baylor University in 2020.
Before serving as a pastor, Jonathan worked as a youth minister, taught high school English in the United States and middle school English as a Foreign Language in South Korea.
In his free time Jonathan enjoys video games, podcasts, the Cincinnati Reds, and going to the movies. Jonathan’s favorite verse in Scripture are these words of Jesus in the Gospel of John: “I have told you these things, so that in me you may have peace. In this world you will have trouble. But take heart! I have overcome the world.” - John 16:33 (NIV)

Worship Arts Director

Dr. Cynthia Smith

A native of Tennessee, Cynthia L. Smith holds a Bachelor of Music in Vocal/General Music Education from Tennessee Tech University. Her Master of Music is in Performance from Western Carolina University in North Carolina. Cynthia earned her Doctor of Arts degree in Music Performance with a secondary in Music History and Musicology from Ball State University here in Muncie. Currently, Cynthia teaches as Assistant Teaching Professor of Music (Voice) at Ball State. Before 2021, she taught Western Music at KM Music Conservatory in Chennai, India. Prior to living in India, Cynthia was a researcher in Basel, Switzerland. She also taught K-12 music in North Carolina for several years. Cynthia has enjoyed over 20 years of marriage to Aaron Smith. They have two young children, Elinore and Adrian. In her free time, Cynthia is a tea connoisseur, book aficionado, and avid gardener. One of Cynthia’s favorite passages of Scripture is from Psalms. “Come, let us sing for joy to the Lord; let us shout aloud to the Rock of our salvation. Let us come before him with thanksgiving and extol him with music and song.” - Psalms 95:1-2 (NIV)

Church Coordination Team

Members of the Church Coordination Team (CCT) are church members selected as representatives by the whole church body for the purpose of coordinating the ministry of the church. They are tasked with coordinating the work of a particular area of church ministry. CCT members generally serve up to three years before rotating off for at least one year before they may be nominated again.

Andy Heimlich

Lay Moderator

Cheryl Flaherty

Adult Coordinator

Dana Davis

Outreach Coordinator

Sally Butler

Member Care Coordinator

Ed Brzak

At Large Coordinator

Nina Oisten

Clerk

Sandi Brzak

Treasurer

Jaden Johnson

Children Coordinator

Joseph Songer

Property

Loraine Garrett

Youth Coordinator

Molly Flodder

Worship Coordinator

Deacons

Current Deacons (left to right in photo):

Gayle Songer, Richard "Dick" Flaherty, James "Jim" Butler*, Aaron Smith, Janis Wright

*Deacon chair: deaconchair[at]fbcmuncie.org

What are Deacons?

Each active member or attendee is assigned a Deacon whom they can go to with questions, to get connected, or for pastoral care needs.

In the New Testament, deacons were chosen for acts of mercy and service in the church (1 Timothy 3:8-9; Romans 16:1-2).

Following that example, Deacons assist at the Lord’s table and in baptism, in orienting and caring for members, and oversee the benevolence fund. A deacon serves a three-year term before rotating off for at least one year before they can be nominated again.

Ministry Intern

Pianist

Worship & Children's Ministry Intern

Caroline Koby

Caroline Koby is a Ball State University student studying music education. Her internship areas are children and worship ministry.

Pianist / Organist

Julie Kirklin

The pianist/ organist helps lead us in worship. She is also often available for funerals and weddings. Julie has been a longtime member of FBCM.

Wedding Coordinator

Ella Mae Lemen

Ella Mae is a long-time member of First Baptist Church who also serves as our Wedding Coordinator. She is the appropriate person to contact if you are interested in celebrating a Christian wedding ceremony at First Baptist. For more information about wedding ceremonies at First Baptist, please see our Wedding page for more details.

Every Member of this Church

“There are different kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit distributes them. There are different kinds of service, but the same Lord. There are different kinds of working, but in all of them and in everyone it is the same God at work.”

1 Corinthians 12:4-6 (NIV)

FBCM challenges each member to exercise his or her gifts for the glory of God. CCT Members and Deacons are chosen from the members of the church. And, even if not currently serving in those particular capacities, every Christian is called to minister to others in some way.

Seeking more information about FBCM?

See our important documents page.

[Button] Mail -> mailto:kendall@fbcmuncie.org

[Button] Mail -> mailto:jonathan@fbcmuncie.org

[Button] Mail -> mailto:cynthia@fbcmuncie.org

[Button] moderator[at]fbcmuncie.org -> mailto:worship@fbcmuncie.org

[Button] Important Documents -> https://www.fbcmuncie.org/post/important-documents