Who We Are

Our Watchword

Our Goals

Our Pledge

A Note From Our Pastors

Where To Go Next

“Praise & Proclaim”

“Give praise to the Lord, proclaim his name;
make known among the nations what he has done,
and proclaim that his name is exalted.”

(Isaiah 12:4)

This statement is our congregational “watchword.” A watchword is a short reminder and a promise from scripture about who God is and who he has called his people to be.

When the people of God were in exile, the Prophet Isaiah spoke. He delivered a message from God about what it would be like "In that day" when they returned. The people would return, praising and proclaiming the name of the Lord, and making him known to all nations.

At First Baptist Church Muncie, we believe the day of the Lord's favor has come in Jesus. The short of it is: that Jesus really does change everything.

And our goal for this season is to praise and proclaim his name.

This watchword, “Praise & Proclaim” reminds us of the importance of each:

Praise

That our Purpose is worship, lifting up name of God: Father, Son, & Holy Spirit.

Proclaim

That our Joy is to share the Good News of Jesus, with our neighbors & the world.

Our Church Coordination Team (CCT) has set certain goals for our church this season, in pursuit of following the calling God has given us as a congregation in different areas of our life together.

Worship

Worshiping as the Body of Christ

FBCM gives praise to the Lord by gathering to worship as the full, intergenerational body of Christ.

Following God's Word - Our times of worship are rooted in scripture and prayer-filled so that our body can collectively hear from God, discern the next right step, and follow the Holy Spirit.

Enjoying Fellowship - We set aside time to personally greet and encourage one another. Passing of the peace, sharing the good news through personal testimonies, and prayer are ways we participate in the shared life God has given us.

Participating in Practices Christ Gave Us - FBCM prepares new believers for baptism, the time when they publicly proclaim God has become their salvation and join the body of Christ. FBCM celebrates the Lord’s Supper monthly during intergenerational worship so that all may take part.

We are a Spirit-led people gathered to join Christ's presence in our community.

The Way
(Discipleship)

Seeking Understanding

FBCM proclaims God's faithfulness with people who are curious about faith, as well as new believers. We offer a growth track to help us all “come and see” who Jesus is and grow spiritually (John 1:39-41).

Welcoming Worship – FBCM invites everyone to join our worship services, no matter their background or beliefs. We show the hospitality Christ has first shown us.

Caring Mentorship – Each regular attendee is connected with a deacon who offers prayer and support.

Spiritual Friendship – We provide small group meetings where we can learn together about the Bible, theology, and living in Christian community.

Witness
(Evangelism)

Inviting to Church & To Know Christ

To make known what God has done, FBCM builds Christ-sharing relationships with people in Muncie and beyond to spread the good news.

Engaged Membership – Church members actively talk about their faith and aim to live in a way that reflects Jesus.

Local Partnership – We believe God has placed us in downtown Muncie for a reason. We work with local groups to bring light and hope to our community.

Kingdom Citizenship – Jesus told us to share the good news everywhere. We support Global Servants (missionaries) and pray for people from all over the world to follow Jesus. We also celebrate the wonderful diversity of God's Kingdom, the Global Church.

Work
(Acts of Mercy)

Gifts For Service

FBCM exalts God by following Jesus’ example of serving others, rather than seeking to be served ourselves (Mark 10:45).

Serve – We actively and practically help and work alongside our neighbors.

Support – We give sacrificially to help those in need through regular offerings and donations.

Share – We care for church members who are sick, home bound, or struggling, making sure they remain part of our life together.

Our commitment to one another is drawn from scripture. And it’s this:

We pledge ourselves to be the family of God for you in this place:

Bearing your burdens, as you bear ours.

(Galatians 6:2)

Encouraging you in the faith, as we are encouraged by you.

(1 Thess. 5:11)

Delighting in the Lord’s ways

(Ps. 86:11-13; Ps. 37:3-6)

Offering our lives as a living sacrifice: Holy & Pleasing to God.

(Romans 12:1)

When a member joins, we say this pledge together as a church.

The life of faith isn't meant to be lived alone. Before he was crucified, Christ's prayer to the Father was that his disciples, and all believers after them, would be one — as he and the Father are one.

(John 17:20-22)

At the same time, that unity comes with wonderful God-given differences. We’re not clones who all think, look, or act exactly alike! That is what the Apostle Paul means when he talks about the church as the body of Christ, with many different parts and many different gifts.

(1 Corinthians 12:12-30)

Pastors Kendall & Jonathan

If you’re looking not only for a place to attend a service, but for a community of faith, we would love to welcome you to First Baptist. And, if you’re unsure what you believe (or even if you consider yourself a great skeptic!), but are wondering if there may be something more out there, we’d love for you to join us for worship too!

After all, Jesus did not say to his first followers: “Figure it all out, and then get back to me.” He said to them, “Come and see” (John 1:39).

Even so, we know people curious about a church wonder what a particular church, including its pastors, “are all about.”

We love the Good News – the Gospel – that Christ came and lived a life as it was meant to be lived: in full obedience to the Father. And in doing that, all the way to the cross, he destroyed our death by dying. He gave us new life in rising by the power of the Holy Spirit. He Ascended to heaven, and he will come again in glory to make all that is wrong right. That’s life-changing, and truly good, news. It’s news good enough to set all of us free.

We’re all about the church. This church is made up of people who are all imperfect, all of us with our own struggles, all of us failing, falling into our old selfish ways, and getting up again only by God’s grace. And those same people are also filled by God’s own Spirit, have a sincere desire to be “good news” people, and to serve one another as we grow in our love of Christ together.

We’re honored to serve as Co-Pastors here. And it’s not only because First Baptist decided to do something a little unusual in calling a married couple to be Co-Pastors — both of us preaching the word and shepherding God’s people in this community.

We love to serve here because we love being part of this Spirit-led people gathered to join Christ's presence in our community.

Finally, we would love for you to join us this Sunday, or anytime we’re gathered to encounter the same Christ who was, and is, and will come again – as we meet him in worship, the word, and the Lord’s table. “Come and see!”

Sunday Worship

Find Out What You Can Expect This Sunday

Contact Us

Get In Touch With Us With Our Virtual Contact Card

Meet Our Staff

Read our staff bios and meet the people of FBCM

Find Out More

Download Our Welcome Booklet

[Button] Read More -> https://www.fbcmuncie.org/what-to-expect

[Button] Contact -> https://fbcmuncie.churchcenter.com/people/forms/159198

[Button] Read More -> https://www.fbcmuncie.org/ministers

[Button] Download -> https://www.fbcmuncie.org/_files/ugd/08181c_75a0565927c14a929d1ebee1565e638c.pdf