Youth

“Rejoice in the Lord always. I will say it again: Rejoice! Let your gentleness be evident to all. The Lord is near.”

Philippians 4:4-5 (NIV)

The Youth Ministry at First Baptist delights in sharing the joy of the Lord with students grades 6-12. In this amazing and formative time in life, students are asking big questions about God, faith, and the world around them. The youth ministry hopes to encourage students to see their life within the great story of God’s faithfulness, love, and salvation in Christ Jesus.

Check out our regular online newsletter entitled “The Moose’s Message” to see the latest updates or contact the church for more information.

Schedule

Large Group Meeting

Every Sunday, 9:30-10:15 a.m.
(FBCM Youth Center)

Our main teaching time where students gather at the intersection of God’s work and our lives. Pastor Jonathan and Kendall, alongside a youth volunteer, open up scripture and discuss how God’s work intersects with student’s lives.

After Youth Large Group meetings, students typically attend Donut (Semi) Hour with the whole congregation (10:15-10:45 a.m.).

Family Day Out Events

Discipleship, maturity, studying scripture. All of those are important goals we have as a youth ministry. We also believe that all of that is fully compatible with having a whole lot of fun.

The FBCM Youth Ministry invites students to partake in "Family Day Out" events, as well as special youth events. From frisbee golf, to escape rooms, to Christmas parties, or any number of fun events – these are great opportunities to invite a friend and have a great time.

You can find more information at the newsletter, and even register for events using the church app.

City Life Club Meeting

Wednesdays During School Year

7:17 - 8:45 p.m.
(FBCM Fellowship Hall/

Youth Center)

FBCM is a site for "City Life!" All students grades 6 - 12 are welcome.

We begin with a meal at 7:17 p.m. in the fellowship hall.

Then, we have some time for fun and games and end with a Bible study.

Other Youth Events Include

Camps

Retreats

Mission Trips

All-Church Events

Serving as important leaders in Worship

Helping to lead Vacation Bible School

Get Involved

If you wish to be a part of our youth ministry, contact us!

Lorraine Garrett

CCT Youth Coordinator

youth[at]fbcmuncie.org